Good morning, and welcome to session 613,
Creating Application Clusters
for Apache and MySQL.
It is my pleasure to introduce to
you Thomas Loran from Emic Networks,
a partner of ours that we've been
working with for the last six months
in providing this cluster technology.
So without further ado, Thomas,
come on up.
Good morning, everybody.
Let's make sure that this
thing works right here.
Like Chris said, my name's Thomas Loran.
I'm the principal systems
engineer for Emic Networks.
We're a San Jose-based
company specializing in
Apache and MySQL clustering.
We do have engineering offices
overseas in Ulu and Helsinki,
Finland, so we're kind of an
international company,
but we are located here in the Bay Area.
What I'm going to talk to you
about is application clustering,
the concepts, the technologies for,
like I said, Apache and MySQL.
I'm going to talk about why we use load
balancing and why we use clustering.
I'm going to talk about the
various types of clustering.
I'm also going to talk about the
various types of load balancing
and how load balancing works.
Now, when you're talking to
an audience like this,
there's a wide range of experiences.
So some of the early slides might be
a little bit slow for people that are
experienced in load balancing or some
of the other cluster technologies.
But I think it's important to
get a baseline technology so
people understand what I'm talking
about when I say load balancing,
people understand what I'm
talking about for clustering,
because clustering can mean
different things to different people.
So, why do we use clustering
and load balancing?
Well, basically, there's two reasons.
The first one is redundancy.
People have got SLAs that
they need to meet.
You've got to have uptime for your
internal and external customers.
Redundancy is one of the
primary reasons that people use
clustering and load balancing.
The second one is scalability.
A lot of times,
people have hit performance
walls on a single box,
and they need to put more users
on a particular application.
Well, how do you do that?
How do you make sure that your incoming
client requests go to multiple servers?
That's the load balancing part.
And then, how do you make sure that the
various servers have the same data
consistently on the back side?
And databases have a
particular challenge for that.
So, what are we talking about here?
What we're talking about
is a multi-tiered approach.
Now, this is something that
most everybody understands.
You've got your web clients,
you've got your application
servers in the middle,
and you've got your MySQL database
servers on the back end.
Now, sometimes,
these layers can be blurred,
and you'll see that
throughout the slides.
Like, a lot of times,
I'll be combining your middle tier
and your back end tier together,
and bear with me as I go
through these slides.
It's several times I'm
going to have to say,
okay, please understand that.
When you're talking about Apache,
you're talking about the client
being your web browser going
to your application servers,
but then sometimes when
I'm talking about MySQL,
you need to understand that the
client in that particular case is
your web app going to the back end.
But for space and the way
that the slides are laid out,
that this is the only time
really that I'm going to put the
three-tier architecture up there.
But that's kind of what
we're talking about.
Like I said,
Apache clustering between your
browsers and your application servers.
MySQL clustering between
your application servers.
And your database back end.
And sometimes you can combine, you know,
in Emix case in particular,
for very low-end SMB people,
you have the option of combining
your application servers
with your database servers.
So.
One of the things that's pretty important
is understanding what clustering is.
Clustering means various
things to different people.
You've got computational clustering,
application clustering,
and data store clustering.
I'm going to kind of mention what
each one of those are and then
focus primarily on application
clustering and data store clustering.
Computational Clustering
Computational clustering.
There's a lot of sessions here today,
this week,
about computational clustering.
Basically, it's designed to seamlessly
integrate resources like CPUs
into a computational grid,
sometimes called
high-performance clustering.
A typical application
would be video rendering,
scientific and technical environments.
A good example, as you can read up there,
is Virginia Tech.
That's not the focus
of this presentation.
There are other presentations that talk
about computational clustering and HPC.
This is a traditional
application clustering.
And traditionally,
what happens is—and hopefully you
guys can see the little tiny dot
here—is you've got two applications
running on two different servers here.
And traditionally,
there's an application heartbeat
between those two servers.
I'm going to go back here to this one.
The reason I hesitated for a
second is normally on my other
slides I had IP addresses.
What would happen is your top server
up here would have one IP address,
like a 192.168.1.2.
The one down here would
have a 192.168.1.3.
And in the center,
you would have like a virtual IP address
that people would connect to those two,
and it would be like a 192.168.1.1.
The application heartbeat
determines which one of these two
applications is going generally,
but not always.
Only one of those applications
is going at a particular time.
What makes application clustering
different is the fact that
traditionally—and once again,
there's always exceptions.
I'm talking about generally here.
Generally, there's a single data store.
In this particular case,
I've got an XServe RAID on the back end.
That means—and there are exceptions
to this—but generally speaking,
only one of those applications can
be active at a time because you
can't have two applications writing
to your same disk or mounting
the same volume at the same time.
So that's what happens with
application clustering.
Now, data store clustering is
kind of a different concept.
In data store, what we're talking about
is the physical data,
the disks themselves.
Sometimes it happens at the file level,
and this really has no
awareness of the application.
So there are various volume replicators,
there's some file system replicators,
things like that,
that will take your data that's
physically on the disk and
replicate it back and forth.
No awareness whatsoever
to the application.
This requires data replication.
The challenge with this is the
applications hold data in memory.
Now, what that means,
why that's a problem is,
frequently when you're
using data store clustering,
your data underneath an application
can change physically on the disk,
but your application is physically
pulling from what's cached in memory.
So you can have a case where
things are out of sync.
So when you're running data store
computation or data store clustering,
you're not going to be able to replicate
the data that's being collected.
So you're going to have
to do a lot of work.
So when you're running data store
computation or data store clustering,
it's very,
very important that you have hooks
that are built into your application.
That's where a company
like Emmet comes in,
because we have hooks where we
can do the application clustering,
the data store clustering,
and make sure that the
application is aware that the data
physically on a disk has changed.
And once again,
I'll talk more about this.
It's particularly important
with databases where you
have the concept of order.
So, data store replication,
traditional file or disk replication.
One of the ways that you do this
is a master-slave architecture.
What happens is you've got read-writes
that come down to a primary server.
Then what that server does is it forms
out the request or replicates those
over to other servers that are slaves.
Those other servers sometimes,
but not always,
can be used as read-only replicas,
but you can't write to them,
and the reason being is data consistency.
That's why you've only got a single
place where you do your writes,
and then you've got
read-only on top of that.
One of the things, one of the,
when you're talking about databases,
the concept that follows that
is lazy database replication.
Lazy database replication does use
the same master-slave architecture,
and it uses log shipping via
a peer-to-peer connection
to maintain slave databases.
One of the big advantages of that,
of course, it's easy to set up.
It's able to survive relatively
high latency for replication,
and the slaves are read-only.
Now, the cons, of course,
are the failover's not
transparent for applications.
It's got limited scalability.
Data can be lost if the master becomes
unavailable for extended periods of time.
Those are some of the cons of that.
Data store clustering,
what we're talking about here,
and this is actually masterless.
Peer-to-peer is not correct.
Masterless is the correct term for this.
So what happens is each one of your nodes
is able to handle both a read-write,
and each one of your nodes
takes your data and transports
it to all the other ones.
Now, when you're doing this, it's very,
very important that you have some kind of
a consistency protocol so that each one
of your nodes has exactly the same data,
because if you don't,
what'll happen is one of your nodes
will read one set of data that hasn't
been transported over to the other side,
and you've got inconsistent views.
When you're dealing with a database,
that could be very bad.
So, active database replication.
Once again, this is not a peer-to-peer,
this is a master list.
And what happens is,
all database requests are sent
to all nodes in a cluster.
It ensures that the database requests
are executed in the correct order.
And I'll talk more about
the ordering problem.
The advantage here is the application
is—the fail-over is absolutely seamless.
You get a single IP address
where the applications go.
The nodes are consistent at all times.
The cons are it's a little
bit more complex to set up,
and you need additional network.
At least in Emic's case,
what you need is an additional network
on the backside to handle replication,
but I'll show that in another slide.
Now, what I'm going to talk
about is load balancing.
Now, load balancing,
the problem that we're
going to try to solve is,
how do you spread the load
between the various servers?
Well, so you've got,
in this particular case,
what I've got here is some web
clients that are trying to go
to a generic cluster over here.
So the first request comes on in,
it goes to one server,
and you want to make sure that the
next requests are replicated and
goes over to the other servers.
Well, how do you do that?
Well, make sure that...
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so there's traditionally
three types of load balancing.
DNS round robin,
which I sort of talked about before,
hardware load balancing,
software load balancing.
So in a DNS round robin scenario,
which is very, very common,
what happens is—and this could be
very elementary for some people here,
but just bear with me so
we have a level set here.
What happens is a web
client does a request for,
let's say, www.mysite.com.
The request goes to a DNS server.
The DNS server responds
back with an address,
in this case, 17.100.100.5.
Then it takes that physical IP address,
that 17.100.100.5,
and ships it over to one of the servers.
The advantage for
DNS Round Robin is it's very free.
It's easy.
Let me back up here and talk a
little bit more about this slide.
So what would happen is the next
request would do the very same thing.
It would go up to www.mywebsite.com.
It would get a different IP address.
Instead of 17.100.100.5,
it would get 17.100.100.4,
which would take it over to my website.
So, what happens is,
in your DNS zone records, you would have,
for www.mywebsite.com,
you would have four, five, six,
seven different physical IP addresses.
The advantage is, it's free,
it's very easy to set up,
it's very easy to administer.
However, like I said before, the con is,
there's no awareness of the
servers being up or down.
There's no inherent ability
to separate out services,
and that's one of the
advanced features is,
there's no awareness of the
servers being up or down.
So, you don't have to worry about that.
While you can use different
names for different services,
it has no way to say that
an HTTP request goes here,
an HTTPS request goes there,
a database request goes here.
So, it can't handle any
of that kind of stuff.
It's not very intelligent whatsoever.
So, hardware load balancing
requires a network device,
not necessarily a network switch.
They're very specialized
devices to do this.
And what happens is,
you get an address that comes in,
in this case, 17—say, 216.17.1.
And then, the load balancer applies
some sort of a policy,
and I'll talk about what
the policies are on this.
There are various parameters that the
hardware load balancer will use to
determine which one of these goes to.
It translates that address to a
private address of one of these.
It could go to 1001, 23, etc., etc.
Like I said, the first one comes in,
it gets translated, goes to 1001.
And then, the second one comes in,
it gets translated, goes to 1002.
For your next request, 1003.
Let me back up here and talk about
what some of the types of policies are.
And when I say policies,
typical ways that they do it
are things like round robin.
Now, it's different than DNS round robin
because the hardware load balancer
physically knows what server is up.
And if a server is down,
it simply drops it out of the rotation.
One of the other policies
is weighted round robin.
Here's a good example.
Let's say you've got a— A new dual
G5 running an application over here,
and you've got a low-end Linux box
running Pentium 166 over here.
What you can do is say—is you can
weight the G5 to be more preferable
than the low-end Pentium box.
So, let's say for every one request
that the Pentium box gets,
your G5 gets five.
That's one of the weighted ones.
You can do things like
simple—let's say first in,
first out, latency.
But what you can't do,
and where Emmet comes in,
is you can't query the server for
things like server load balanc—or for
server CPU utilization and parameters
that are specific to an application
that's running on that server.
That's one of the policies that
Emmet has that's an advantage
over a hardware load balancer.
Like I said, they're very, very powerful.
They're flexible.
You can separate out the services,
and they can handle special cases.
Well, what do I mean by special cases?
And I'm not going to go into a lot of
detail about what special cases are,
but they're things like SSL encryption,
things like persistence.
And what I mean by persistence
is sometimes when you're
running a web application,
a financial application,
you want to make sure that the exact
same tuple or exact same client on the
same port goes to exactly that same
server before that gets committed.
That's called persistence.
One of the other things that hardware
load balancers can do is they can do
things called global load balancing,
where you may have a cluster in New York,
and you may have a
cluster in Los Angeles.
How do you make sure that somebody
in Chicago goes to the right one?
Those are global load balancing things.
These are things that hardware load
balancers kind of specialize on.
They're usually deployed in pairs,
and they're very, very expensive.
They're $15,000 to $50,000 each,
so $30,000 to $100,000
to get them set up.
They're pretty complex
to set up and administer.
There's a lot of policies, rules,
and things like that.
And like I said, they don't have,
as part of their policies,
they don't have any direct awareness
of what your application load is.
So, software load balancing.
An example is the Emic
Application Cluster.
What we do is we make sure
that each one of our nodes
gets—each one of our sessions,
and then using our policies inside there,
we will make sure that one of those gets
accepted and the other two get dropped.
And in a second, I will go into that,
and I'll explain how we drop those
and how we actually run our flow.
This is on the front,
or the public network,
and we're talking about
the load balancing.
Later on in the presentation,
I'm going to talk specifically
about Emic and how we do—after
we've load balanced that,
how do we do total ordered replication
of the database on the back end?
Like I said,
the next one would go to the next server.
It gets pretty redundant.
You guys kind of get the idea here.
So, the advantages for MMIC application
clusters or software load balancer,
in our particular case,
were designed for HTTP and MySQL.
Policy based,
based on server application load,
it's very easy to set up
and easier to administer.
I said on the con,
it does require a separate
network on the backside.
It can be a virtual network,
it can be a physical one.
And also, it's designed to support
only HTTP and MySQL,
and it doesn't handle the special cases.
Currently, in this version of code
right now that we've got out,
it doesn't handle the special cases.
So, let me switch gears.
That was kind of a high overview of
what load balancing is in general
and what replication is in general.
Very broad broads.
So, let me just brush on that.
Let's talk about
MMIC application clustering.
It's the same technology framework.
And this is where I condense it.
I talked before about a
three-tier architecture.
Well,
this will always be your clients here.
And this is a cluster,
and I deliberately left it out
whether that's going to be like an
Apache cluster or whether that's
going to be a MySQL cluster.
So, several times in this presentation,
I'm going to talk about
these web clients here.
And remember that I'll try
to make a specific reference,
whether that's a web browser or
whether that's an application.
as your client that's talking
to the database on the back end.
So, what MySQL does is we apply
Apache load balancing on the front end,
then we can do MySQL load balancing,
and then we can do MySQL replication.
And you notice one of the
things I didn't put up here was
actually Apache replication.
That's currently not in this
particular product because when you're
talking about these kind of websites,
generally speaking,
you're talking about static
content for a lot of your web data.
Your dynamic content is
generally in your database.
It gets replicated.
So, there are other
mechanisms that you could,
since it doesn't change that often,
that you could actually replicate your
web content between your various servers.
But remember, to have a cluster,
you've got to have load balancing,
and you've got to make sure
that your content is consistent.
It's databases that change constantly,
and databases have got
the total order problem,
and that's what we're
going to talk about.
So, Emic Application Cluster,
you get dynamic load balancing,
you get an active replication
as opposed to lazy replication,
and you get fault
detection and isolation.
So, let's take a walkthrough here.
What we do is we configure our switches,
and we're changing the way that we do
this right now between various versions,
but we take our interfaces and switches
are configured to allow all packets
from all clients to arrive on all nodes.
So basically, everything gets flooded to
each one of these servers.
Generally speaking,
there will be a SYN packet at the front.
And the SYN packet has
got to match our policy.
So the first server is set up so
that it will accept SYN packet one,
the second one is set up
so that it accepts two,
the second one sets up three.
What happens is the other
SIN packets are dropped so that
we only have one session going.
The initial SIN setup
goes to all the servers,
and then the other sessions are dropped.
That's how it gets flooded,
and then based on that policy,
we decide whether we're going
to accept that particular
flow or not accept that flow.
Let me give you an example
here of the kind of scalability
that we're talking about.
The first slide right here is an
example of a standalone MySQL server.
Down here,
these are transactions per second.
These are fairly typical of
what we're seeing over some
low-end three-node clusters here,
but they're relative depending
on things like your network,
your hardware, your application.
On the back side here, this is,
let's say, server units.
So this is like half a server,
one server, two server units.
You see when we put MySQL or we
put M-ApplicationCluster on a node,
on a single node, and we turn it on,
we really don't take much of
a performance hit whatsoever,
and obviously we don't get any scaling
because there's only one server.
When we go to two servers here,
you can see that we don't
quite double the load,
but we definitely get up there.
And then when we go to three servers,
you see that the transactions
per second go up.
It doesn't go up exactly one for one,
but there is a load.
a linear relationship as we go up.
So,
it's managed off of a Java application,
it's Aquafied.
This is an example of our client,
and later on in the demo,
I'm going to talk about that.
I'm going to show you this.
I'm going to connect up to a cluster.
I'm going to bring a couple nodes online.
Each one of the nodes is represented
by a particular glyph or an icon that
has various colors for various meaning.
It can be active,
where it handles all our requests.
It can be offline,
where it does not handle any
requests whatsoever—in other words,
totally dead.
It can be standby.
Standby is kind of interesting,
because what a standby
server is doing is,
it's replicating all your
database changes on the back end,
but it's not servicing any read requests.
So it can come online very, very quickly,
because it doesn't have
to be a standby server.
It doesn't have to synchronize
any kind of a database,
so it's ready to go.
Transitional,
it's sort of moving between the states.
You'll see this glyph come up several
times when you're actually moving
between a standby and an active,
or an offline and an active status.
And a maintenance mode is where you
take the database down for maintenance.
So I'm going to switch
over to a cluster here.
So what I've got here is I've already
hooked up to an application cluster.
This is a prototype software we're
running here for an OS X port.
And I should say that
we're in version 2.0.
We're built for Linux.
We've got production customers
running in version—on Linux.
But several months ago,
we started in an OS X port.
So what I'm showing now is
the OS X port of our product,
which is prototype software.
And I'll talk about when
we're going to be using it.
we're looking at releasing it.
But it's not a build,
because that's already out there.
It's just a conversion
over to a different OS.
What we're seeing here is
Node 3 up here at the very top
is running in an active status.
Node 2 and 3 are in a cold status.
And we've set up a Linux server
that's running a script
that's banging this for load.
So it's got—if I remember
the script right,
it's set up—it's putting about
350 clients are connecting on it.
We've got a lot of artificial
things in the script to
generate 100 percent load here.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to
control-click on our first server here,
and I'm going to move it
from an offline status.
[Transcript missing]
And as it starts to move,
what's happening now is the
first server is sending its
load over to the second one.
It's actually copying
the database physically,
so you don't have to
have that one set up.
It's physically copying
that database over,
and now the second one is online.
Now,
if you take a look at the chart here,
it took a little bit of a dip,
and then our CPU utilization
should go right back up,
but our transactions per
second—let me move over here
so we're not checking on load,
we're checking on our request rate,
our transactions per second.
Our transactions per second went up here.
Now, you notice that this doesn't
have the same scalability that
I showed in the other slide,
because we're running prototype software,
Thomas Loran and our engineers
are still connecting.
So, we're kind of tweaking the code.
I just wanted to show
that it does increase.
It's not as large an increase
as we have on our Linux,
but while we're still running
100% load on two servers now,
because that's what
our script is pushing,
we're actually getting more throughput.
These two servers—one's at 96%, one's at
98%—that's about as high as they'll get.
They usually don't go to 100%,
but sometimes it takes a little
while to level out the load because
of the number of transactions.
Some have got a timeout,
and the load balancer shifts.
So, we're kind of tweaking the code.
I just wanted to show
that it does increase.
It's not as large an increase
as we have on our Linux,
but while we're still running
100% load on two servers now,
because that's what
our script is pushing.
We're actually getting more throughput.
Sometimes it'll take three to
five minutes before they level
out at the same utilization.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going
to control-click on our third node.
I'm going to bring that online.
Now, what's interesting here,
and while we always recommend
deploying these in three,
is what's going to happen is one
of the servers is going to go into
a standby mode—a special kind of
standby mode—where it's not going
to be servicing requests out.
It's going to freeze the server.
So, we're going to freeze the
database as a snapshot,
copy it over to the new
node that's coming online,
and cache all the requests
that are coming in.
Then, when both of them have the
exact same copy of the database,
what it's going to do is take the cached
information that it was transmitting,
verify that everything's consistent,
and bring all three of
them up on the same time.
So, it's better always to have three than
it is two so that you can always have
one running as you're doing this,
because one does move into a
maintenance mode or into standby mode.
So, as you can see,
what's happening is both of these
have gone into transition state.
One of them is still active.
Now, this guy's gone offline,
and while the top guy is still
servicing all the requests,
the guy on the right has now transferred
his database over to the one on the left.
He's got caught up, and then he takes the
information that's cached,
and he brings those together.
And, well, down here,
this was running—the
first line was a single.
The second one was two boxes,
and now that's increased up to three.
So, while we're still running,
our load—let me go back here and check.
Yeah.
Our load overall for the cluster
is still running 97%. We've got the
Linux box set up to just blast the
box with as much as it can take.
You'll see that our requests
per second keep going up.
Don't pay that much attention to
what the delta is between the steps,
because that's code optimization
that's specific to the OS X platform
that we're still working on.
So, that basically is the demo
that I wanted to show you,
and I'll go back to the presentation.
It's kind of interesting how one of
them will go offline and then copy
the database over while the first one
is still servicing all your requests.
Okay, can we cut back over to the slides?
Done with the demo?
All right, thanks.
So, let's talk about how EAC does
the active replication.
And I told you that one of the problems
that we had was a two-phase commit.
I don't think that was
actually in the slide.
Lazy—when people traditionally
did active replication,
they had a concept of a two-phase commit.
It means your database write has
got to be committed on one server,
and then it's got to be
committed on the other server,
acknowledged, before it actually becomes,
let's say, a final commit.
Well, that's very, very slow.
So,
what we wanted to do—the whole essence
of why Emic was created and the problem
that we were trying to solve was,
how do we avoid this two-phase
commit and still have a lot of speed?
Well, we came up for our concept
of active replication,
and I'll explain how we do that.
So, what we do is we've got a
group communication protocol,
and we use a total reliable
multicast protocol.
It's a token-based passing protocol.
A lot of people joke with me and say,
token ring.
No, no, no.
It's not token ring, okay?
It's a token passing scheme that we use,
and we use the reliable multicast.
And, of course, if you're a network guy,
you say, well, wait a second.
Multicast is an oxymoron.
It's not reliable.
Well, because we use the token scheme,
and what we do is each one of our
requests gets a sequence number that's
assigned to that particular request,
and then we're able to
keep everything in track.
The token gives a particular
node permission to transmit,
and it doesn't wait for the
event the request actually
execute on each one of the nodes.
What we're trying to do is make sure
that it gets queued in a proper order.
So, that's what we're doing with a
sequence number for each request.
We also have a mechanism for
handling partition clusters.
And what I mean by partition clusters,
let's say I've got five
clusters in a node.
There's some kind of a
partition on the back end,
and what happens is they're still
connected up on the front end,
so it's being load
balanced across the front,
but it's partitioned on the back.
So, you've got two nodes over here
in this group that think that
they're servicing all the requests,
and you've got three nodes over
here determining that they're
still servicing all the requests.
Well, one of those two can't be right,
because then you've got
a partition cluster.
We have a mechanism for handling
that and shutting down what we call
the node that isn't the quorum.
The quorum, or the majority,
continues to operate,
and the other part actually drops off.
The other thing is we're actually
integrated with MySQL lock manager,
so the problem that we're
trying to solve is how do we
have total ordered consistency?
Here's our front network.
We're doing our standard load balancing
that we had talked about before.
We receive the tokens
on a private network.
We assign an order request,
and then we multicast
them out on the back side.
You'll notice here
that we've got a token.
Right here on the top,
this just gives him
permission to transmit,
and then each one of your requests gets
assigned a particular sequence number.
So the sequence number that each
one of these nodes gets is one,
for example.
Then we do our next operation.
The load balancer goes over, let's say,
to the middle server.
He does a request.
That request is number two, for example.
He gets the token,
so he has permission to transmit that,
and he multicasts that out.
And then everybody says, well,
the last one I saw was one.
I'm getting a two,
so I know that everything's in order.
It's got to be sequential.
Once again, the load balancer changes
over to the third node.
It's got a request that comes in,
a database replication request.
It assigns it number three.
It gets the token.
It multicasts that out
to each one of the nodes.
So, as you can see,
there's no two-phase commit here,
and that's really what we're trying to do
is solve that two-phase commit problem.
Now, for your programmers out there,
this makes a lot of sense.
Here's the problem that
we're trying to solve.
With databases,
it makes a big difference the order that
you receive your particular request in,
because as you're well aware, you know,
three plus four divided by five
is a lot different than three
divided by four plus five.
So, with databases,
you've got to make sure that
the order is exactly consistent.
Now, there are a couple of things that
go into making up that order.
You've got network latency
and things like that,
but on each server,
each one of your threads could
be operating at a different rate.
There could be different CPU load
on each one of the servers.
So, you need to make sure,
even though the request gets
to that particular server,
how do you ensure that it gets
ordered or executed in exactly the
right order on different servers?
This is a very challenging problem.
And like I said, what we do is we assign
sequence numbers to it,
and we queue them.
Okay.
And we do that for execution
in exactly the same order.
And as long as they're queued,
then we can free up and
go do the next operation.
So, I talked about fault
detection and isolation.
One of the challenges that we've got,
on our back end we've got a
secondary network that can
be either real or virtual.
What happens is we use a token
loss timeout and a probe,
which is ping-like.
Ping is the best way to describe it.
We have a particular fail—we have a
failure detected on the network here.
We detect that the token has timed out.
And by the way,
the target that we're looking at
to do this is 10 milliseconds.
So we're not talking, you know, 10, 15,
20 seconds or a minute or two.
10 milliseconds is what we're looking at.
We get a token loss,
and then what we do is
we'll send a probe down.
[Transcript missing]
So, kind of in summary there,
we do MySQL and Apache clusters,
not computational clusters.
We're the hybrid approach where we do
data store and application clustering,
and we bring those two together.
Our focus is accurate replication,
where you need very,
very tight replication
between your various servers,
where you need to scale
your databases very solidly,
very low total cost of operation.
The other thing that I'm kind
of looking to you guys for is
our release candidate program.
Like I said,
we're on version 2.0 on other platforms,
but we're looking for beta testers
and release candidate testers
for our code to run on OS X.
We're looking at releasing
that sometime late Q3,
early Q4, with production as scheduled,
sometime around the end of the
year or early part of the year.
The product managers get
very upset when I actually,
you know, nail them down with dates.
You guys are familiar with that.
I mean, there could be a bug that,
you know, somebody determines during
the actual release candidate
program to slip those dates.
But anyway,
we're looking at Q4 and early Q1
2005 for production code on OS X.
So, if you're interested in that,
somewhere up here it had my email
address on there or you can go to
our website at www.emicnetworks.com
or my email address is thomas.loran
at applicationcluster.com.
One of the things about having an early
stage company is sometimes we really
can't decide on what our name is.
So my email address is
actually thomas.loran,
L-O-R-A-N, at applicationcluster.com.
So if you guys want to be part of the
release candidate program and test this
as we're running our production release,
I'd be happy to talk to you and getting
this set up in your environment.
So with that,
I am going to work with Chris who's going
to handle any kind of Apple questions.
I wanted to see if there are any
questions from the audience here
on MySQL and Apache clustering.